Another town, another attack:

Shots, then a show of conflagration. 

Blood rushes from our limbs, grooving

the old channels, pooling hearts and minds. [Our Zombie Life]

We bring to our bright screens our heat 

and our tears, proclaiming, as one,

the suddenness of our pain, pleading 

to let some good be born of this. 

Buy my book, this one quickly shares, 

which alone might console and explain. 

The rest of us decide, without 

conviction, not to chirp a word.

Is this innocence, surviving

at the cost of mind? The country, 

still, is better, where blackbirds shawl 

the treetops, mimic the huffing wind. 

At night, the scent of skunk slices 

clean through the walls to where dreams spool

and roll in bellies that growl and burst. 

••• •••

Confess, they’ve rubbed off on you, these states 

of drenched things, which teach how little 

there is that easily floats, how few 

of us can resist a new regime. [Way Down and Out]

Once, on this very road, you saw 

just beyond the telephone lines

a funnel cloud touch down. Then it passed 

and you were safe, both of you churning 

some other bit of earth, writing 

yourselves in the book of common

sorrows, a mass market that falls 

to pieces when it meets water. 

Nowadays, you venture out in search

of soaked birds that for the moment

cannot fly.  The feral cats would feast, 

if they could stand the rain. 

                                             Listen, 

even the wipers like to complain. 

••• •••

Had you driven along this road 

when you were younger, you might have found 

these scenes ludicrous and sad. You would 

have driven fast. Some part of you 

wouldn’t want to acknowledge what 

you were seeing, what you failed to see. 

You would have feared them, all the known 

unknowns of your trip now. 

                                               You’re south 

of Clarksdale, chasing a storm, those bands 

of gray ahead of you which promise 

to chaperone your journey back, 

slowing any return to your world. 

••• •••

Honestly, I don’t know where to go 

from here. It’s not a matter of will. 

The muscles impel, mere reflex, [Caw]

probably, vestige of parent fear 

encoded and passed down. Sinew 

and pearly-white teeth are fine gifts 

and well worth showing off. Fast feet 

are not. 

             This, friend, is where we are.

Alluvial soil, detrital dirt, 

turning world. Even when the levees

more or less hold, the earth is shifty.

Slow or sudden, trails, roads, and whole towns

all but disappear. The metal rusts

but remains, roofs and gins that collapse

on themselves, glinting in the sun.

Further out, solitary hardwoods

by creek beds dagger the landscape,

arbitrary, monolithic

monuments. Are they markers, scrawled

history, or shade for lean lunches?

Here, we plant saplings for the dead

and farm to the doors of old houses.

Here, our quickness of mind brings us 

burgers and fries, and a bit of luck. 

••• •••

Once the story ended, you might 

go back and do anything, kill 

the innocents you had set free. [Free Play]

What else? 

                   Well, it was mostly that. 

Nights, then days and nights, crafting a verb 

from your loneliness, tensing at 

creaks in the hall. Against walls, you 

rounded them up, pixel by pixel, 

taking your time, then dropping them, 

one by one, writhing on their stomachs 

at what was not your feet. Did they 

say a single word? Only later, 

when, married to your sleep, you lived out 

in less tangible worlds fantasies

for which you had trained. Even there, 

you found some red doors would not open. 

••• •••

The downtown strip is too quiet. 

It’s an hour before lunch, fall 

harvest time. Small piles of soy beans dot [Hot Sauce]

the roadside, spill-off from trucks; wisps 

of cotton bandage the bottoms 

of abandoned buildings. Movement. 

The bars of the post office door 

swing out. Two girls who ought to be 

in school head toward an empty house. 

You’re walking north on Fava Street, 

named for a family who set up 

shop here, running a grocery store 

and a grill, the one building lit 

on your side of the street; the one door 

that grates and swings. You are a stranger, 

sight to see. The woman behind

the register cannot contain 

her surprise before her face goes flat, 

a shield. You look away, look around, 

as your friend starts talking. She points you 

to the tables in the back. A pink 

glow from overhead lights shines through 

jars of pig’s feet, pickled in their brine. 

You order a burger, just in time. 

No sooner has your patty hit 

the grill than the lunch rush spills in. 

Workers fill the place for the chili 

they’ve been smelling for blocks. Your eyes plead 

“feed them first,” but she won’t have it.

Neither will they. The world rarely fails 

to show you how mean and small you are. 

She hands you one of the best burgers 

you have eaten. When you stand to leave, 

the young men give you too-wide a berth, 

the kind of deference the bosses 

must not notice after a while. 

••• ••• 

Does doubt live in this world you have won?

Where would it hide? Behind those red doors,

under lines of horizon, beyond

the distant spaces which call you home 

and promise the busted mystery 

of the long and open road? My God, 

what have you done? What will you become? 

I was not myself then; I am not 

me now. 

               The last image you take 

from this place is outside the largest 

house in town. A straw militia man 

holds a rifle on his shoulder

and sports a child’s helmet. Beside him 

sits a guillotine and small cannon.

Halloween? Sheets curtain the windows 

and as you pass, you think you see 

(Is it a wish?) a hand pull back 

an upstairs sheet. You slow, 

                                              but don’t stop 

until the car breaks down south of town. 

Suddenly, you’ve got more time to kill. 

••• •••

So how do I share with yours and mine 

this particular breeze? At the start, 

everyone seemed shiny and flat, 

sheets upon sheets. Perhaps our deaths [Selfie]

alone gave us depth, and this flatness,

this sheen, we named hunger. In time, it

assumed a leadership position 

among us, our holy mother 

of movement. 

                       (Now, hold on a sec, 

before you get the wrong idea. 

Let me segue, let me keep you 

since I’ve got you. 

                               Remember those 

B-sides of your youth, how you felt 

sorry for those songs, sad ballasts 

to siblings who stayed out late, climbing 

the charts. They float in our oceans now, 

fresh expanding islands that mean 

we wait for nothing but our deaths. 

How will we know it when it comes 

for us? We’re rolling, B-sides and all.) 

••• •••

The tow truck arrives from somewhere else,

its owner a teacher at the high school, 

which he points out. A wooden sign             [Mound Bayou]

tells you the town is the oldest 

African-American settlement 

in the country, but you won’t see this 

until it’s in your rearview mirror. 

The year of founding marks the place 

as one of the longest lasting

interior towns, a colony 

founded by a freed slave. Of course,

the whites soon tried to buy it back, 

returning the farmers to the fates 

they’d fled. 

                    What desperation led them 

to this spot? Even now that the hard 

work of cultivation has long been done, 

you can see how inhospitable 

it must have been. Swamp and forest 

and nothing for miles. Perhaps that’s it—

a spot miles from the real dangers. 

You’re not more than twenty miles or so 

from the river, but this thought does not 

console. Your resolve to do justice 

to this place pools in the wet heat. 

••• •••

Like almost every small town, this one 

sports cosmetic touches, lime and pink 

building fronts, but it’s deeply asleep. [Shut-eye]

Those lucky enough are elsewhere,

the rest have hidden themselves away. 

Though this time of year it would take 

a hurricane to cool things off, 

you happen to have one coming, 

an easy thought for someone like you— 

This is someone’s home.

 

••• •••

                                            Mute the voice. 

You ask for guidance and I give

you platitudes, a knitted brow. [G.P.S.]

Latitudes? Attitudes. Our course—

a meandering, mending stitch 

across the fair countryside. To those 

standing still, the pleasures are obscured. 

It takes, almost, a narrator: 

they’ll sit awhile here instead of there. 

They’ll trade those lights for whatever

is on your flashing screen. 

                                           Who stops 

anymore for just a drink? Only 

such travelers as we. We alone.

Recalculating….Find the route

to that dive that’s known for the staff 

who toss hungry guests their dinner rolls. 

They shoot across the room like stars. 

From the roadside, a sign yells at you

to Repent!, but you are too far gone.  

A graveyard beckons off the road. 

Sweet little Sammy lies here, dead 

before he could crawl. His foot stone 

is a tree trunk that must have lived 

and died long after young Sammy. 

The ground is higher here, though not 

by much. Your friend tells you these plots 

are all over, hidden by brush, 

a gentle kind of forgetfulness. 

Your head swims with the names of places

sleeping Sammy never learned to say. 

••• •••

There is a sweet life. But obtained

by you and me? Roadside, the scent’s

so strong you think it must be something 

placed and tended, something pruned and plucked.             [Honeysuckle]

They like fences and poles, but farther

and soon there won’t be fences and poles, 

just fields between solitary trees. 

Do you remember? We combed the fence 

and sowed the yard with petals; school 

was out and you felt old at ten. 

I forgot the scent was so strong, 

but the drops on my tongue stuck with me. 

••• •••

You reach the light where two students  

died last year, struck on their way to class 

by a patrol car in fast pursuit. [Shall We Pray]

You remember them as you pass 

and think how treacherous a road 

this road can be, mostly at night, 

when the brightness of your headlights 

only serves to remind you how much

you’re not seeing. You dream of it 

sometimes, driving straight into an F5, 

stalled truck, or family of deer 

surfacing out of the deep dark 

so fast there’s nothing to do but sigh 

and go limp. When the impact wakes you, 

you find you cannot move. 

                                            It’s late 

morning. The old folk have gathered 

around tables in their yards. It seems 

every building’s boarded but a church 

and the convenience store. A man 

in blackened overalls crosses 

the street. You think he must be younger 

than he looks because he looks too old 

to be alive. He’s picked up a bike 

from the gutter, a girl’s bike, purple 

with a white basket tied to the front. 

He hunches as he rides, so his knees 

almost reach his chin. He has not looked 

in your direction and you can’t take 

your eyes off him until the road 

curbs him from your sight. You wonder 

what the preachers tell their flocks, frying 

on folding chairs in the Sunday heat. 

••• •••

What hovers there over the fed fields? 

••• •••

You were beside yourselves with rage. 

You’d driven for hours, a straight line 

across the top of your map. The wheel [U.F.O]

you gripped warped in the long silence. 

It was the way they nimbly moved 

that caught her eye, the way they blinked 

in the sky as if they were the points 

of needles stitching a black skein 

of lullabies. Later, against 

her stiff pillow, she went to that couch 

she kept in the safe room of her mind, 

watching her grandmother gently work 

in front of her father’s fire. 

                                             What 

were they showing you by poking through

that night if not the effort it takes

to keep together our torn world? 

She wanted error, the thread dropped low 

enough to carry her back up,

so she might surface to newness, 

having tied off her life down below. 

••• •••

Now you’re north of Vicksburg. The road

is here as it’s always been, two-lanes 

through the white and chocolate fields, [A Kennedy Came

the greens of rice and soy and corn. through Here

You pass a patch ribboned with flowers, with Tears in His 

volunteers sprung up in orderly rows. Eyes]

Your friend and guide says he remembers 

riding through these farms as they burned, 

bands of orange fire, the black smoke 

funneling out. “What’s that,” you ask, 

“at the field’s edge.”  “A boll-weevil trap.” 

Sounds like a song. An old, sad song.

The place seems two-dimensional 

against the horizon, triptych 

of columns, a cell tower and school,

the grass hip-high on its roof. You feel 

vaguely guilty, but everyone leaves. 

Stop for a stretch, but you won’t see it, 

the sparkling ground, glitter of glass 

from houses that were not built to last. 

••• •••

That old store is just the kind of place 

you like, even before you see 

the sign marking it as the site             [Onward]

of Roosevelt’s “Teddy Bear Hunt.” 

The porch is smiling broadly, wood 

panels stretching back down to the earth. 

A group of hunters greet you, but 

you know so little you cannot say 

whether they’re on their way to blind 

or home. Inside, you feel the chill. 

You used to find 16 oz. bottles 

by the road near your house and bring them 

to this very store when it was set 

deep in the Appalachian mountains

where you grew up. It even has

Mallo-Cups, which cost you four bottles. 

••• •••

Do not look to the sky, for nothing 

written there will be of any help.

Clouds do not conspire with the wind. [Chem Trails]

Halfway to heaven, they are heedless

palm prints, great nothing’s heavy-handed

marbling of the world. 

                                     The church points 

its golden finger straight to God. 

It seems angry, but it might be 

your mood. The hand looks accustomed 

to the hard work of ownership. 

At the stoplight, the thought you’ve buried 

since you began this trip suspires 

to the surface of your mind. It’s all 

for you. This happened so you might 

see it this very moment. 

                                        The light 

changes; the finger has done its work.  

••• •••

When it comes upon us, will we think 

we’re nowhere near our destination? 

Deep blues—the sky is like a spit-shined [Original Force] 

china dish above the fat, flat lines 

of our sight. Smells like someone died, 

but it’s only the fields. Oh, that’s 

a family plot. You can tell because 

the headstones still lean. The others 

got wood, which went faster back to dust.

Port Gibson to Natchez, Natchez

to Dolorosa, where the road 

swerves out from the river, something 

keeping these two from straying 

too far away from one another. 

History, you suppose. You’re close 

to the border, and well on your way. 

••• •••

We are photons shooting deep in space 

but are we carrying on as waves

or particles? It all depends 

on if we’re being watched. 

                                              Old news, [Turn the Dial]

What’s strange is that a separate set 

now think we will have decided 

what we become before we reach 

the place we are or are not watched. 

Let that settle in enough to feel 

the staccato-thumping of your heart, 

clutch of your blood revving the world 

that rushes by at your fingertips. 

What else moves you like this, the skunk 

that crossed your path and whirled?  Or was 

he a scorpion? That bird astride 

the yellow lines, will it become 

itself and fly? Do our vanished loves 

choose to comfort or divide us 

when they let themselves be seen? Angels 

and devils both have wings. Both can fly.

••• •••

Most times, the truckers remember they 

just want to get free, somewhere else 

and new. This is one of their stories… [Breaker, Breaker, 

Like many, to earn money, the girl 

cleaned houses with many rooms. One house,

especially, pleased her, because 

it faced east, and she loved the light 

that filled the place, the way the dust 

flashed when she snapped her rag. Each morning,

though, she found another room to clean, 

as if at night a whole crew showed up

to enlarge the house, room by room.

Sunlight did not shine through the windows

of these new rooms and, before long, 

she found rooms without windows at all, 

just walls, ceilings, and floors covered 

in the dust of their construction. 

She worked faster, harder each day, 

until, one afternoon, she came 

upon a door, behind which she heard 

sounds of a different kind of labor, 

whirring saw, and hammer and drill.

She opened the door to find a man

working feverishly. He was stooped 

with age, although his hair and beard

were yellow with dust and bits of wood. 

She saw, at once, the way his eyes sagged 

with grief. “Please, the girl cried. “Please stop. 

This house is large enough. Already, 

we are too far from the light of day. 

When I walk home, the sky is so red,

 my hands bleed.” 

                               “I will not,” snorted 

the man. 

               “The dust gets everywhere,” 

the girl cried. “It has blinded you 

to the way things are.” 

                                   “I cannot stop,” 

the man said, a bit more politely. 

“I must make rooms and, so, you must 

clean them.” 

                       Desperate, the young girl

took the old man’s hand and led him 

through the halls of the empty house 

he had built. Finally, they arrived 

at the windows she loved, but the sun 

was shining on the other side

of the sky, softening everything,

for it was very late in the day. 

The girl and the old man rested there 

until morning and when the light, 

the lovely, yellow light flooded 

the rooms, the dust on the man’s clothes 

and hair became shooting sparks of light. 

“I’m burning,” he cried. “Take me back 

to my work.” 

                       And then it did seem 

as if he were on fire, not like 

a wick, which burns and burns, but a match 

which flashes and is snuffed out. The girl, 

in amazement, moved to the windows, 

but she did not catch fire. She snapped 

her rag, moving to the rhythm  

she made, dancing for joy and sorrow

among a sudden shower of stars. 

••• •••

There’s the Ruins, and there’s the Fort 

where rains pour. Your speech turns martial. 

Days buisey scenes had past away.

The camp in sleeping silence lay. 

So wrote one James Addison Boyd, 

who was later killed. And you’ll feel 

it then, too, that old southern ache, 

a birthright, the tyranny of pride. 

You’ll feel it so strongly you’ll head back 

in your mind to the ruins, those columns 

connected by iron. An empire waist, 

you joked, noting the Kudzu that grew 

from their tops. Leaving, you saw the sign

which warned the whole thing was unstable. 

••• •••

And there you were walking the dog 

to the park. It was dark. A couple

cuddled on a bench. You didn’t need [Flashback: When 

to see what they were doing to know Some Heard Singing]

they were in love, or close enough.

1999. Generally, 

you might have been happy, but that night, 

specifically, you were tired. 

The dog was taking forever 

and you found yourself praying for shit 

like rain. The stars, if they were out 

(you were watching the ground) were muted 

by moonlight. The moon was full that night 

of itself. It was autumn. Three months 

until the new millennium,

three months before the end of the old

millennium. You weren’t sure which 

and had heard both. 

                                 Now this (all that 

happened next) is startling. You were 

walking the dog, do you remember? 

It was late. The century was gone 

or just beginning. The couple, 

if they were ever there, had moved on, 

and as your dog began her circling, 

you heard them. Footsteps. Approaching. 

As if all the years you weren’t 

a party to had come back dancing 

around you. You whirled.  Nothing, at first, 

though you saw the stars, then—ah, 

of course—the leaves. (There must have been 

a breeze.) The leaves crackled like stars 

around you, layer upon layer.

You were me, and the stars shined brighter 

than the thought of stars. You wanted 

to believe the life you had lived 

was over. 

                 It wasn’t, I agree. 

••• •••

You like them, you know it. And best 

from the back of a truck.. Don’t worry, 

there’s always one not far ahead. [Tamales]

Now that the thought sticks in your brain, 

too, it isn’t going anywhere. 

There’s our sign, that square of blue that pales 

the sky. Take them right out of the shuck 

with some sauce. Hot fuel for the mind, 

which no one needs. 

                                 It’s a zombie life

we lead. Friend, here’s where you get off.
